Personality Measures

The big five personality traits, often referred to as OCEAN, are: Openness, Conscientiousness, Extroversion, Agreeableness, and Neuroticism.

Openness to experience. Sometimes called intellect or imagination, this represents the willingness to try new things and think outside the box. Traits include insightfulness, originality and curiosity.

Conscientiousness. The desire to be careful, diligent and to regulate immediate gratification with self-discipline. Traits include ambition, discipline, consistency and reliability.

Extroversion. A state where an individual draws energy from others and seeks social connections or interaction, as opposed to being alone (introversion). Traits include being outgoing, energetic and confident.

Agreeableness The measure of how an individual interacts with others, characterised by degree of compassion and co-operation. Traits include tactfulness, kindness and loyalty.

Neuroticism. A tendency towards negative personality traits, emotional instability and self-destructive thinking. Traits include pessimism, anxiety, insecurity and fearfulness.



Customer Notes

The customer has had previous issues with mental health. Stress has had a significant impact on their health over the past year.

The customer works long hours and finds it difficult to settle into sleep.

The customer meets the criteria for "metabolic syndrome" - raised blood pressure, increased abdominal fat, disturbed lipids (cholesterol), and liver inflammation (shown through elevated liver enzymes).

The customer needs to improve their aerobic fitness, with increased strength in second place.

I’d recommend 2 sessions per week, mainly longer workouts performed at a slow-moderate intensity (HR ~120-130bpm), with a weekly session of interval training to spike the heart rate. Supplement this with 2 strength-based workouts (probably weights) per week.

The customer may be insulin resistant.

Our dietician’s recommendations are:
- Portion control and balanced meals to reduce calories
- Swap out calorie-dense foods for healthier options
- Increase fibre through fruit (low fructose options)
- Moderate sodium’s impact on blood pressure

The DNA report highlighted some interesting results. Firstly, that some genes maybe working against the customer in terms of weight management – especially ones that may reduce fat burning, and make the customer prone to "emotional eating".

The assessment also revealed a genetic propensity for lactose intolerance, which the customer was aware of, as well as possible taste preferences for sweet foods and a sensivity to bitter tastes.




The Report consists of the following sections:

Your Summary - a summary of key recommendations
Your Results, with subsections on Fitness, Body Make-up, Nutrition, Sleep, Stress, and Personality
Your Priorities - specific areas to focus on. Topics include Stress Management & Wellbeing, Nutrition, Aerobic Fitness, Body Fat, Strength, Sleep Quality, Muscle Mass, Mobility, Bone Density, Sleep Duration, and Alcohol.
Your Foundations - focus on vital indicators such as blood pressure.



Example Report

You Summary

It has been great getting to know you over the course of the evaluation.

You have a busy career and work long hours, but it is important to look after your health and
wellbeing –to mitigate against long-term health issues and also to enhance your short-term
performance and ability to withstand stress. The areas I suggest you focus on are:

1. Proactively manage your mental health and wellbeing

You have had previous issues with mental health, and you acknowledge stress has had a significant
impact on your health over the past year. You are working very long hours, and your disturbed
sleep is a sign that you stress continues to be an issue.

You have a long career in front of you and it is important you have a toolkit to manage stress
effectively. Listening to podcasts are a good escape, and social sport is a great outlet and
connects socially. Increasing your frequency of exercise should assist general mental health and I’d
recommend you consider meditation or other relaxation targeted therapies. I’d also suggest you
take time to reflect on ways you can enhance your overall wellbeing.

2. Make adjustments to your diet and nutrition

You currently fulfill criteria for “metabolic syndrome”, being raised blood pressure, increased
abdominal fat, disturbed lipids (cholesterol), and liver inflammation (shown through elevated liver
enzymes). Metabolic syndrome conveys 2-3x the risk of diabetes and heart disease and 1.6x
overall mortality risk.

Losing fat and improving your metabolic health is critical. Making adjustments to your diet
is primary for this (as well as getting fitter). Reduce your overall carb intake and eat portioncontrolled balanced meals, swapping out calorie-dense foods for healthier options. Moderate
sodium’s impact on your blood pressure by drinking water before meals and limiting sodium-rich
foods, Increase omega-3 fatty acids in your diet, perhaps via supplementation.

3. An increased focus on cardiorespiratory fitness and strength

Improving your aerobic fitness should be your top exercise priority, with increased strength in
second place. Try to fit in 2 longish (45-60 minute) moderate cardio sessions each week (perhaps
slow jogging, swimming, or cycling). This “zone 2” exercise is ideal for promoting aerobic fitness
and fat burning. You are in “zone 2” if you can still talk in short sentences (but don’t want to). It
usually correlates to a heart rate around 120-130bpm.

Resistance training is the way to boost strength and will be good for preserving muscle mass as
you lose body fat. Also take a short stroll after meals – it is a great way to boost your metabolic
health (and lose weight).

4. Check in with your GP

Although the best “treatment” for metabolic syndrome is increased physical activity and reducing
weight through an improved diet, you ought to check in with your GP. They should monitor
your blood pressure as well as having other risk factors (cholesterol, liver enzymes, and diabetes
markers) checked regularly.
